ADD MORE 
CLEAN PAGE
Remove Rodrigo and Ciro. 
Figure out how to not kill Alexios

Expected journey time is 4-6 weeks each way, 8-12 weeks both ways

17 days into their journey, 3 weeks and 3 days, they are attacked by a corsair-style light galley.

🛶 The Failed Boarding
Boarding is chaos.
    • Grappling hooks thrown
    • Crossbows fired at 10 feet
    • Men screaming in dialects
    • Slippery decks
A day was lost here. 18

They hit the mast with a cannon, the massive splinter spray killing the gunner, leaving the crew gunnerless during the worst time.

A crewman is lost fending off a hook.

A Powder Flare kills a man, severely burns the powder boy and a crewman and burns two others, one being another powder boy.

The powder boy dies a few days later. The second powder boy (Pietro) gets PTSD and avoids being below deck for too long now

Fatalities: 4
Injuries: 4 from the Flash Fire
(Pietro, Tiberio, Anselmo
5 other wounds from the battle

damaged cargo from the powder flare


It took 3 days to jury rig the mast back to working order. Days 21


Phase 1 – Cannon Strike
They fire first.
Cannonball hits mast.
Splinter spray kills the gunner, Alexios, instantly.
This is believable:
    • Mast splinters act like shrapnel.
    • Gunner is likely positioned near forward guns.
The psychological impact is enormous:
    • Command of artillery collapses in seconds.

Phase 2 – Grappling & Boarding Attempt
Hooks thrown.
Crossbows at close range.
Deck slippery with seawater and blood.
One crewman dragged or falls during hook defense.
Boarding fails — San Marco’s height advantage saves them.

Phase 3 – The Flash Fire
Now gunnerless.
Powder boys panicked.
Archers improvising.
Men rushing reloads.
A slow match too close.
A burning wad not cleared.
Loose powder trail ignites.
Flash flare.
Immediate:
    • One man, Alexios, killed instantly.
    • Three powder boys severely burned. (Rodrigo, Ciro and Pietro)
        ◦ Rodrigo dies instantly, Pietro pulled Ciro from the fire, but Ciro succumbed days later. 
Next, Pietro pulled Filippo from the fire, but after that, the flames were too much to pull Alexios out of the flames
        ◦ Ettore and Tiberio pulled Anselmo from the fire
    • Two crewman severely burned. (Filippo, Anselmo)
    • Two others burned but survivable. (Ettore, Tiberious)

Casualties at Sea (Refined)
Assumed Dead:
    • Gunner (fire, Alexios)
    • Deckhand (boarding chaos, Silvestro)
    • Powder boys (Rodrigo, days later, Ciro)
Total dead: 4
Wounded:
    • 3 severely burnt  
        ◦ Pietro, powder boy, burnt on face, chest, arms, hands and thigh
        ◦ Filippo, burnt on most of body
        ◦ Anselmo, Smoke inhilation damage
    • 2 seriously burnt (
        ◦ Ettore, deckhand, moderate burns on lower leg, chest and arms. He had gloves on and a hat that protected him a bit
        ◦ Tiberious, deckhand, burnt on arms and face and collerbone
    • 5 other injuries (cuts, splinter wounds, broken wrist, arrow graze)
        ◦ Domenico, helmsman, arrow graze to upper arm
        ◦ Baltasar, boatswain, splinter wounds on arms and chest from mast explosion
        ◦ Nikandros, topman, sprain from fall when mast was broken
        ◦ Cosmino, topman, concussion, splinter wounds from mast on legs and feet
        ◦ Guglielmo, lookout, stiff shoulder from fall when mast was broken
